README.md, before:

# [terraform-aws-arc-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-arc-billing)

[![Quality gate](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/quality_gate?project=sourcefuse_terraform-aws-arc-billing)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=sourcefuse_terraform-aws-arc-billing)

[![Known Vulnerabilities](https://github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-arc-billing/actions/workflows/snyk.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-arc-billing/actions/workflows/snyk.yaml)

## Overview

SourceFuse AWS Reference Architecture (ARC) Terraform module for managing AWS budgets, and sending billing alarms to Slack.

## Usage

To see a full example, check out the [main.tf](./example/main.tf) file in the example folder.  

```hcl
module "example_budgets" {
  source      = "sourcefuse/arc-billing/aws"
  version     = "0.0.1"

  namespace   = var.namespace
  environment = var.environment

  budgets = var.budgets

  notifications_enabled = var.notifications_enabled
  encryption_enabled    = var.encryption_enabled

  slack_webhook_url = var.slack_webhook_url
  slack_channel     = var.slack_channel
  slack_username    = var.slack_username

  billing_alerts_sns_subscribers = var.billing_alerts_sns_subscribers
}

```

Edit the [dev.tfvars](./example/dev.tfvars) file and provide desired values.  
The `budgets` variable is used to define list billing budgets to be managed by terraform  
This module sends notifications to both slack and email.  
Use the `billing_notification_emails`, to pass emails that will receive the billing alarms  

```hcl
region      = "us-east-1"
namespace   = "arc"
environment = "dev"

budgets = [
  {
    name            = "ec2-monthly-budget-50"
    budget_type     = "COST"
    limit_amount    = "50"
    limit_unit      = "USD"
    time_period_end = "2025-06-15_00:00"
    time_unit       = "MONTHLY"

    cost_filter = {
      Service = ["Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud - Compute"]
    }

    cost_types = {
      include_discount           = true
      include_other_subscription = true
      include_recurring          = true
      include_subscription       = true
      include_tax                = true
      include_upfront            = true
      include_support            = true
      include_refund             = false
      include_credit             = false
      use_blended                = false
    }

    notification = {
      comparison_operator        = "GREATER_THAN"
      threshold                  = "100"
      threshold_type             = "PERCENTAGE"
      notification_type          = "ACTUAL"
      subscriber_email_addresses = ["example@example-email.com"]
    }
  },
  {
    name         = "total-monthly-100"
    budget_type  = "COST"
    limit_amount = "100"
    limit_unit   = "USD"
    time_unit    = "MONTHLY"

    notification = {
      comparison_operator        = "GREATER_THAN"
      threshold                  = "100"
      threshold_type             = "PERCENTAGE"
      notification_type          = "ACTUAL"
      subscriber_email_addresses = ["example@example-email.com"]
    }
  }
]

encryption_enabled    = true
notifications_enabled = true
slack_webhook_url     = null
slack_channel         = null
slack_username        = null

billing_alerts_sns_subscribers = {
  "opsgenie" = {
    protocol               = "https"
    endpoint               = "https://api.opsgenie.com/v1/json/amazonsns?apiKey=xxxx-xxx-xx-xxx-xxxxxx"
    endpoint_auto_confirms = true
    raw_message_delivery   = false
  }
}
```

## First Time Usage
***uncomment the backend block in [main.tf](./example/main.tf)***
```shell
terraform init -backend-config=config.dev.hcl
```
***If testing locally, `terraform init` should be fine***

Create a `dev` workspace
```shell
terraform workspace new dev
```

Plan Terraform
```shell
terraform plan -var-file dev.tfvars
```

Apply Terraform
```shell
terraform apply -var-file dev.tfvars
```

## Production Setup
```shell
terraform init -backend-config=config.prod.hcl
```

Create a `prod` workspace
```shell
terraform workspace new prod
```

Plan Terraform
```shell
terraform plan -var-file prod.tfvars
```

Apply Terraform
```shell
terraform apply -var-file prod.tfvars  
```

## Cleanup  
Destroy Terraform
```shell
terraform destroy -var-file dev.tfvars  
```

***Note:***  
&emsp;&emsp;***The emails will need to confirm subscription to SNS, in order to continue to receive billing alarms.***  
&emsp;&emsp;***An email will be sent from AWS to the emails***  

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | ~> 1.5 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | ~> 5.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 5.31.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_budgets"></a> [budgets](#module\_budgets) | cloudposse/budgets/aws | 0.3.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_sns_topic_subscription.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_billing_alerts_sns_subscribers"></a> [billing\_alerts\_sns\_subscribers](#input\_billing\_alerts\_sns\_subscribers) | A map of subscription configurations for SNS topics<br><br>For more information, see:<br>https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription#argument-reference<br><br>protocol:<br>  The protocol to use. The possible values for this are: sqs, sms, lambda, application. (http or https are partially<br>  supported, see link) (email is an option but is unsupported in terraform, see link).<br>endpoint:<br>  The endpoint to send data to, the contents will vary with the protocol. (see link for more information)<br>endpoint\_auto\_confirms:<br>  Boolean indicating whether the end point is capable of auto confirming subscription e.g., PagerDuty. Default is<br>  false<br>raw\_message\_delivery:<br>  Boolean indicating whether or not to enable raw message delivery (the original message is directly passed, not wrapped in JSON with the original message in the message property).<br>  Default is false | <pre>map(object({<br>    protocol               = string<br>    endpoint               = string<br>    endpoint_auto_confirms = bool<br>    raw_message_delivery   = bool<br>  }))</pre> | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_budgets"></a> [budgets](#input\_budgets) | A list of Budgets to create. | `any` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_budgets_kms_master_key"></a> [budgets\_kms\_master\_key](#input\_budgets\_kms\_master\_key) | KMS CMK to be used for encryption | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_encryption_enabled"></a> [encryption\_enabled](#input\_encryption\_enabled) | Whether or not to use encryption. If set to `true` and no custom value for KMS key (kms\_master\_key\_id) is provided, a KMS key is created. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_notifications_enabled"></a> [notifications\_enabled](#input\_notifications\_enabled) | Whether or not to setup Slack notifications. Set to `true` to create an SNS topic and Lambda function to send alerts to Slack. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_slack_channel"></a> [slack\_channel](#input\_slack\_channel) | The name of the channel in Slack for notifications. Only used when `notifications_enabled` is `true` | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_slack_username"></a> [slack\_username](#input\_slack\_username) | The username that will appear on Slack messages. Only used when `notifications_enabled` is `true` | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_slack_webhook_url"></a> [slack\_webhook\_url](#input\_slack\_webhook\_url) | The URL of Slack webhook. Only used when `notifications_enabled` is `true` | `string` | `""` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_budgets"></a> [budgets](#output\_budgets) | List of Budgets that are being managed by this module |
| <a name="output_kms_key_arn"></a> [kms\_key\_arn](#output\_kms\_key\_arn) | ARN of the KMS CMK that was created specifically for budget notifications |
| <a name="output_kms_key_id"></a> [kms\_key\_id](#output\_kms\_key\_id) | ID of the KMS CMK that is used for SNS alerts |
| <a name="output_lambda_cloudwatch_log_group_arn"></a> [lambda\_cloudwatch\_log\_group\_arn](#output\_lambda\_cloudwatch\_log\_group\_arn) | The ARN of the Log Group used by the Slack Notify Lambda |
| <a name="output_lambda_function_arn"></a> [lambda\_function\_arn](#output\_lambda\_function\_arn) | The ARN of the Lambda function |
| <a name="output_lambda_function_invoke_arn"></a> [lambda\_function\_invoke\_arn](#output\_lambda\_function\_invoke\_arn) | The ARN to be used for invoking lambda function from API Gateway |
| <a name="output_lambda_function_name"></a> [lambda\_function\_name](#output\_lambda\_function\_name) | The name of the Lambda function |
| <a name="output_lambda_iam_role_arn"></a> [lambda\_iam\_role\_arn](#output\_lambda\_iam\_role\_arn) | The ARN of the IAM role used by Lambda function |
| <a name="output_sns_topic_arn"></a> [sns\_topic\_arn](#output\_sns\_topic\_arn) | ARN of the SNS topic created for alerts |
| <a name="output_sns_topic_name"></a> [sns\_topic\_name](#output\_sns\_topic\_name) | The name of the SNS topic created for notifications |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

## Versioning  
This project uses a `.version` file at the root of the repo which the pipeline reads from and does a git tag.  

When you intend to commit to `main`, you will need to increment this version. Once the project is merged,
the pipeline will kick off and tag the latest git commit.  

## Development

### Prerequisites

- [terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install#installing-terraform)
- [terraform-docs](https://github.com/segmentio/terraform-docs)
- [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/#install)
- [golang](https://golang.org/doc/install#install)
- [golint](https://github.com/golang/lint#installation)

### Configurations

- Configure pre-commit hooks
  ```sh
  pre-commit install
  ```

### Tests
- Tests are available in `test` directory
- Configure the dependencies
  ```sh
  cd test/
  go mod init github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-refarch-<module_name>
  go get github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/terraform
  ```
- Now execute the test  
  ```sh
  go test -timeout  30m
  ```

## Authors

This project is authored by:
- SourceFuse

Commit message:

update README and bump version #major

README.md, after:

# [terraform-aws-arc-billing](https://github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-arc-billing)

[![Quality gate](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/quality_gate?project=sourcefuse_terraform-aws-arc-billing)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=sourcefuse_terraform-aws-arc-billing)

[![Known Vulnerabilities](https://github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-arc-billing/actions/workflows/snyk.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-arc-billing/actions/workflows/snyk.yaml)

## Overview

SourceFuse AWS Reference Architecture (ARC) Terraform module for managing AWS budgets, and sending billing alarms to Slack.

## Usage

To see a full example, check out the [main.tf](./example/main.tf) file in the example folder.  

```hcl
module "example_budgets" {
  source      = "sourcefuse/arc-billing/aws"
  version     = "0.0.1"

  namespace   = var.namespace
  environment = var.environment

  budgets = var.budgets

  notifications_enabled = var.notifications_enabled
  encryption_enabled    = var.encryption_enabled

  slack_webhook_url = var.slack_webhook_url
  slack_channel     = var.slack_channel
  slack_username    = var.slack_username

  billing_alerts_sns_subscribers = var.billing_alerts_sns_subscribers
}

```

Edit the [dev.tfvars](./example/dev.tfvars) file and provide desired values.  
The `budgets` variable is used to define list billing budgets to be managed by terraform  
This module sends notifications to both slack and email.  
Use the `billing_notification_emails`, to pass emails that will receive the billing alarms  

```hcl
region      = "us-east-1"
namespace   = "arc"
environment = "dev"

budgets = [
  {
    name            = "ec2-monthly-budget-50"
    budget_type     = "COST"
    limit_amount    = "50"
    limit_unit      = "USD"
    time_period_end = "2025-06-15_00:00"
    time_unit       = "MONTHLY"

    cost_filter = {
      Service = ["Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud - Compute"]
    }

    cost_types = {
      include_discount           = true
      include_other_subscription = true
      include_recurring          = true
      include_subscription       = true
      include_tax                = true
      include_upfront            = true
      include_support            = true
      include_refund             = false
      include_credit             = false
      use_blended                = false
    }

    notification = {
      comparison_operator        = "GREATER_THAN"
      threshold                  = "100"
      threshold_type             = "PERCENTAGE"
      notification_type          = "ACTUAL"
      subscriber_email_addresses = ["example@example-email.com"]
    }
  },
  {
    name         = "total-monthly-100"
    budget_type  = "COST"
    limit_amount = "100"
    limit_unit   = "USD"
    time_unit    = "MONTHLY"

    notification = {
      comparison_operator        = "GREATER_THAN"
      threshold                  = "100"
      threshold_type             = "PERCENTAGE"
      notification_type          = "ACTUAL"
      subscriber_email_addresses = ["example@example-email.com"]
    }
  }
]

encryption_enabled    = true
notifications_enabled = true
slack_webhook_url     = null
slack_channel         = null
slack_username        = null

billing_alerts_sns_subscribers = {
  "opsgenie" = {
    protocol               = "https"
    endpoint               = "https://api.opsgenie.com/v1/json/amazonsns?apiKey=xxxx-xxx-xx-xxx-xxxxxx"
    endpoint_auto_confirms = true
    raw_message_delivery   = false
  }
}
```

## First Time Usage
***uncomment the backend block in [main.tf](./example/main.tf)***
```shell
terraform init -backend-config=config.dev.hcl
```
***If testing locally, `terraform init` should be fine***

Create a `dev` workspace
```shell
terraform workspace new dev
```

Plan Terraform
```shell
terraform plan -var-file dev.tfvars
```

Apply Terraform
```shell
terraform apply -var-file dev.tfvars
```

## Production Setup
```shell
terraform init -backend-config=config.prod.hcl
```

Create a `prod` workspace
```shell
terraform workspace new prod
```

Plan Terraform
```shell
terraform plan -var-file prod.tfvars
```

Apply Terraform
```shell
terraform apply -var-file prod.tfvars  
```

## Cleanup  
Destroy Terraform
```shell
terraform destroy -var-file dev.tfvars  
```

***Note:***  
&emsp;&emsp;***The emails will need to confirm subscription to SNS, in order to continue to receive billing alarms.***  
&emsp;&emsp;***An email will be sent from AWS to the emails***  

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | ~> 1.5 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | ~> 5.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 5.31.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_budgets"></a> [budgets](#module\_budgets) | cloudposse/budgets/aws | 0.3.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_sns_topic_subscription.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_billing_alerts_sns_subscribers"></a> [billing\_alerts\_sns\_subscribers](#input\_billing\_alerts\_sns\_subscribers) | A map of subscription configurations for SNS topics<br><br>For more information, see:<br>https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/sns_topic_subscription#argument-reference<br><br>protocol:<br>  The protocol to use. The possible values for this are: sqs, sms, lambda, application. (http or https are partially<br>  supported, see link) (email is an option but is unsupported in terraform, see link).<br>endpoint:<br>  The endpoint to send data to, the contents will vary with the protocol. (see link for more information)<br>endpoint\_auto\_confirms:<br>  Boolean indicating whether the end point is capable of auto confirming subscription e.g., PagerDuty. Default is<br>  false<br>raw\_message\_delivery:<br>  Boolean indicating whether or not to enable raw message delivery (the original message is directly passed, not wrapped in JSON with the original message in the message property).<br>  Default is false | <pre>map(object({<br>    protocol               = string<br>    endpoint               = string<br>    endpoint_auto_confirms = bool<br>    raw_message_delivery   = bool<br>  }))</pre> | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_budgets"></a> [budgets](#input\_budgets) | A list of Budgets to create. | `any` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_budgets_kms_master_key"></a> [budgets\_kms\_master\_key](#input\_budgets\_kms\_master\_key) | KMS CMK to be used for encryption | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_encryption_enabled"></a> [encryption\_enabled](#input\_encryption\_enabled) | Whether or not to use encryption. If set to `true` and no custom value for KMS key (kms\_master\_key\_id) is provided, a KMS key is created. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_notifications_enabled"></a> [notifications\_enabled](#input\_notifications\_enabled) | Whether or not to setup Slack notifications. Set to `true` to create an SNS topic and Lambda function to send alerts to Slack. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_slack_channel"></a> [slack\_channel](#input\_slack\_channel) | The name of the channel in Slack for notifications. Only used when `notifications_enabled` is `true` | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_slack_username"></a> [slack\_username](#input\_slack\_username) | The username that will appear on Slack messages. Only used when `notifications_enabled` is `true` | `string` | `""` | no |
| <a name="input_slack_webhook_url"></a> [slack\_webhook\_url](#input\_slack\_webhook\_url) | The URL of Slack webhook. Only used when `notifications_enabled` is `true` | `string` | `""` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_budgets"></a> [budgets](#output\_budgets) | List of Budgets that are being managed by this module |
| <a name="output_kms_key_arn"></a> [kms\_key\_arn](#output\_kms\_key\_arn) | ARN of the KMS CMK that was created specifically for budget notifications |
| <a name="output_kms_key_id"></a> [kms\_key\_id](#output\_kms\_key\_id) | ID of the KMS CMK that is used for SNS alerts |
| <a name="output_lambda_cloudwatch_log_group_arn"></a> [lambda\_cloudwatch\_log\_group\_arn](#output\_lambda\_cloudwatch\_log\_group\_arn) | The ARN of the Log Group used by the Slack Notify Lambda |
| <a name="output_lambda_function_arn"></a> [lambda\_function\_arn](#output\_lambda\_function\_arn) | The ARN of the Lambda function |
| <a name="output_lambda_function_invoke_arn"></a> [lambda\_function\_invoke\_arn](#output\_lambda\_function\_invoke\_arn) | The ARN to be used for invoking lambda function from API Gateway |
| <a name="output_lambda_function_name"></a> [lambda\_function\_name](#output\_lambda\_function\_name) | The name of the Lambda function |
| <a name="output_lambda_iam_role_arn"></a> [lambda\_iam\_role\_arn](#output\_lambda\_iam\_role\_arn) | The ARN of the IAM role used by Lambda function |
| <a name="output_sns_topic_arn"></a> [sns\_topic\_arn](#output\_sns\_topic\_arn) | ARN of the SNS topic created for alerts |
| <a name="output_sns_topic_name"></a> [sns\_topic\_name](#output\_sns\_topic\_name) | The name of the SNS topic created for notifications |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

### Git commits

while Contributing or doing git commit please specify the breaking change in your commit message whether its major,minor or patch

For Example

```sh
git commit -m "your commit message #major"
```
By specifying this , it will bump the version and if you dont specify this in your commit message then by default it will consider patch and will bump that accordingly

## Development

### Prerequisites

- [terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install#installing-terraform)
- [terraform-docs](https://github.com/segmentio/terraform-docs)
- [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/#install)
- [golang](https://golang.org/doc/install#install)
- [golint](https://github.com/golang/lint#installation)

### Configurations

- Configure pre-commit hooks
  ```sh
  pre-commit install
  ```

### Tests
- Tests are available in `test` directory
- Configure the dependencies
  ```sh
  cd test/
  go mod init github.com/sourcefuse/terraform-aws-refarch-<module_name>
  go get github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/terraform
  ```
- Now execute the test  
  ```sh
  go test -timeout  30m
  ```

## Authors

This project is authored by:
- SourceFuse
